Yet it was watching him, with its beautiful marred face and its cruel smile.  Its bright hair gleamed in the early sunlight.  Its blue eyes met his own.  A sense of infinite pity, not for himself, but for the painted image of himself, came over him.  It had altered already, and would alter more.  Its gold would wither into grey.  Its red and white roses would die.  For every sin that he committed, a stain would fleck and wreck its fairness.  But he would not sin.  The picture, changed or unchanged, would be to him the visible emblem of conscience.  He would resist temptation.  He would not see Lord Henry any more--would not, at any rate, listen to those subtle poisonous theories that in Basil Hallward's garden had first stirred within him the passion for impossible things.  He would go back to Sibyl Vane, make her amends, marry her, try to love her again.  Yes, it was his duty to do so.  She must have suffered more than he had.  Poor child!  He had been selfish and cruel to her.  The fascination that she had exercised over him would return.  They would be happy together.  His life with her would be beautiful and pure.

He got up from his chair and drew a large screen right in front of the portrait, shuddering as he glanced at it.  "How horrible!" he murmured to himself, and he walked across to the window and opened it.  When he stepped out on to the grass, he drew a deep breath.  The fresh morning air seemed to drive away all his sombre passions.  He thought only of Sibyl.  A faint echo of his love came back to him.  He repeated her name over and over again.  The birds that were singing in the dew-drenched garden seemed to be telling the flowers about her. It was long past noon when he awoke.  His valet had crept several times on tiptoe into the room to see if he was stirring, and had wondered what made his young master sleep so late.  Finally his bell sounded, and Victor came in softly with a cup of tea, and a pile of letters, on a small tray of old Sevres china, and drew back the olive-satin curtains, with their shimmering blue lining, that hung in front of the three tall windows.

"Monsieur has well slept this morning," he said, smiling.

"What o'clock is it, Victor?" asked Dorian Gray drowsily.

"One hour and a quarter, Monsieur."

How late it was!  He sat up, and having sipped some tea, turned over his letters.  One of them was from Lord Henry, and had been brought by hand that morning.  He hesitated for a moment, and then put it aside. The others he opened listlessly.  They contained the usual collection of cards, invitations to dinner, tickets for private views, programmes of charity concerts, and the like that are showered on fashionable young men every morning during the season.  There was a rather heavy bill for a chased silver Louis-Quinze toilet-set that he had not yet had the courage to send on to his guardians, who were extremely old-fashioned people and did not realize that we live in an age when unnecessary things are our only necessities; and there were several very courteously worded communications from Jermyn Street money-lenders offering to advance any sum of money at a moment's notice and at the most reasonable rates of interest.

After about ten minutes he got up, and throwing on an elaborate dressing-gown of silk-embroidered cashmere wool, passed into the onyx-paved bathroom.  The cool water refreshed him after his long sleep.  He seemed to have forgotten all that he had gone through.  A dim sense of having taken part in some strange tragedy came to him once or twice, but there was the unreality of a dream about it.

As soon as he was dressed, he went into the library and sat down to a light French breakfast that had been laid out for him on a small round table close to the open window.  It was an exquisite day.  The warm air seemed laden with spices.  A bee flew in and buzzed round the blue-dragon bowl that, filled with sulphur-yellow roses, stood before him.  He felt perfectly happy.

Suddenly his eye fell on the screen that he had placed in front of the portrait, and he started.

"Too cold for Monsieur?" asked his valet, putting an omelette on the table.  "I shut the window?"

Dorian shook his head.  "I am not cold," he murmured.

Was it all true?  Had the portrait really changed?  Or had it been simply his own imagination that had made him see a look of evil where there had been a look of joy?  Surely a painted canvas could not alter? The thing was absurd.  It would serve as a tale to tell Basil some day. It would make him smile.

And, yet, how vivid was his recollection of the whole thing!  First in the dim twilight, and then in the bright dawn, he had seen the touch of cruelty round the warped lips.  He almost dreaded his valet leaving the room.  He knew that when he was alone he would have to examine the portrait.  He was afraid of certainty.  When the coffee and cigarettes had been brought and the man turned to go, he felt a wild desire to tell him to remain.  As the door was closing behind him, he called him back.  The man stood waiting for his orders.  Dorian looked at him for a moment.  "I am not at home to any one, Victor," he said with a sigh. The man bowed and retired.

Then he rose from the table, lit a cigarette, and flung himself down on a luxuriously cushioned couch that stood facing the screen.  The screen was an old one, of gilt Spanish leather, stamped and wrought with a rather florid Louis-Quatorze pattern.  He scanned it curiously, wondering if ever before it had concealed the secret of a man's life.

Should he move it aside, after all?  Why not let it stay there?  What was the use of knowing? If the thing was true, it was terrible.  If it was not true, why trouble about it?  But what if, by some fate or deadlier chance, eyes other than his spied behind and saw the horrible change?  What should he do if Basil Hallward came and asked to look at his own picture?  Basil would be sure to do that.  No; the thing had to be examined, and at once.  Anything would be better than this dreadful state of doubt.

He got up and locked both doors.  At least he would be alone when he looked upon the mask of his shame.  Then he drew the screen aside and saw himself face to face.  It was perfectly true.  The portrait had altered.