Over and over again Dorian used to read this fantastic chapter, and the two chapters immediately following, in which, as in some curious tapestries or cunningly wrought enamels, were pictured the awful and beautiful forms of those whom vice and blood and weariness had made monstrous or mad:  Filippo, Duke of Milan, who slew his wife and painted her lips with a scarlet poison that her lover might suck death from the dead thing he fondled; Pietro Barbi, the Venetian, known as Paul the Second, who sought in his vanity to assume the title of Formosus, and whose tiara, valued at two hundred thousand florins, was bought at the price of a terrible sin; Gian Maria Visconti, who used hounds to chase living men and whose murdered body was covered with roses by a harlot who had loved him; the Borgia on his white horse, with Fratricide riding beside him and his mantle stained with the blood of Perotto; Pietro Riario, the young Cardinal Archbishop of Florence, child and minion of Sixtus IV, whose beauty was equalled only by his debauchery, and who received Leonora of Aragon in a pavilion of white and crimson silk, filled with nymphs and centaurs, and gilded a boy that he might serve at the feast as Ganymede or Hylas; Ezzelin, whose melancholy could be cured only by the spectacle of death, and who had a passion for red blood, as other men have for red wine--the son of the Fiend, as was reported, and one who had cheated his father at dice when gambling with him for his own soul; Giambattista Cibo, who in mockery took the name of Innocent and into whose torpid veins the blood of three lads was infused by a Jewish doctor; Sigismondo Malatesta, the lover of Isotta and the lord of Rimini, whose effigy was burned at Rome as the enemy of God and man, who strangled Polyssena with a napkin, and gave poison to Ginevra d'Este in a cup of emerald, and in honour of a shameful passion built a pagan church for Christian worship; Charles VI, who had so wildly adored his brother's wife that a leper had warned him of the insanity that was coming on him, and who, when his brain had sickened and grown strange, could only be soothed by Saracen cards painted with the images of love and death and madness; and, in his trimmed jerkin and jewelled cap and acanthuslike curls, Grifonetto Baglioni, who slew Astorre with his bride, and Simonetto with his page, and whose comeliness was such that, as he lay dying in the yellow piazza of Perugia, those who had hated him could not choose but weep, and Atalanta, who had cursed him, blessed him.

There was a horrible fascination in them all.  He saw them at night, and they troubled his imagination in the day.  The Renaissance knew of strange manners of poisoning--poisoning by a helmet and a lighted torch, by an embroidered glove and a jewelled fan, by a gilded pomander and by an amber chain.  Dorian Gray had been poisoned by a book.  There were moments when he looked on evil simply as a mode through which he could realize his conception of the beautiful. It was on the ninth of November, the eve of his own thirty-eighth birthday, as he often remembered afterwards.

He was walking home about eleven o'clock from Lord Henry's, where he had been dining, and was wrapped in heavy furs, as the night was cold and foggy.  At the corner of Grosvenor Square and South Audley Street, a man passed him in the mist, walking very fast and with the collar of his grey ulster turned up.  He had a bag in his hand.  Dorian recognized him.  It was Basil Hallward.  A strange sense of fear, for which he could not account, came over him.  He made no sign of recognition and went on quickly in the direction of his own house.

But Hallward had seen him.  Dorian heard him first stopping on the pavement and then hurrying after him.  In a few moments, his hand was on his arm.

"Dorian!  What an extraordinary piece of luck!  I have been waiting for you in your library ever since nine o'clock. Finally I took pity on your tired servant and told him to go to bed, as he let me out.  I am off to Paris by the midnight train, and I particularly wanted to see you before I left.  I thought it was you, or rather your fur coat, as you passed me.  But I wasn't quite sure.  Didn't you recognize me?"

"In this fog, my dear Basil?  Why, I can't even recognize Grosvenor Square.  I believe my house is somewhere about here, but I don't feel at all certain about it.  I am sorry you are going away, as I have not seen you for ages.  But I suppose you will be back soon?"

"No:  I am going to be out of England for six months.  I intend to take a studio in Paris and shut myself up till I have finished a great picture I have in my head.  However, it wasn't about myself I wanted to talk.  Here we are at your door.  Let me come in for a moment.  I have something to say to you."

"I shall be charmed.  But won't you miss your train?" said Dorian Gray languidly as he passed up the steps and opened the door with his latch-key.

The lamplight struggled out through the fog, and Hallward looked at his watch.  "I have heaps of time," he answered.  "The train doesn't go till twelve-fifteen, and it is only just eleven.  In fact, I was on my way to the club to look for you, when I met you.  You see, I shan't have any delay about luggage, as I have sent on my heavy things.  All I have with me is in this bag, and I can easily get to Victoria in twenty minutes."

Dorian looked at him and smiled.  "What a way for a fashionable painter to travel!  A Gladstone bag and an ulster!  Come in, or the fog will get into the house.  And mind you don't talk about anything serious. Nothing is serious nowadays.  At least nothing should be."

Hallward shook his head, as he entered, and followed Dorian into the library.  There was a bright wood fire blazing in the large open hearth.  The lamps were lit, and an open Dutch silver spirit-case stood, with some siphons of soda-water and large cut-glass tumblers, on a little marqueterie table.

"You see your servant made me quite at home, Dorian.  He gave me everything I wanted, including your best gold-tipped cigarettes.  He is a most hospitable creature.  I like him much better than the Frenchman you used to have.  What has become of the Frenchman, by the bye?"