An oath broke from his lips.  "I don't care for myself," he exclaimed, "but don't let Sibyl.... It is a gentleman, isn't it, who is in love with her, or says he is?  Highly connected, too, I suppose."

For a moment a hideous sense of humiliation came over the woman.  Her head drooped.  She wiped her eyes with shaking hands.  "Sibyl has a mother," she murmured; "I had none."

The lad was touched.  He went towards her, and stooping down, he kissed her.  "I am sorry if I have pained you by asking about my father," he said, "but I could not help it.  I must go now.  Good-bye. Don't forget that you will have only one child now to look after, and believe me that if this man wrongs my sister, I will find out who he is, track him down, and kill him like a dog.  I swear it."

The exaggerated folly of the threat, the passionate gesture that accompanied it, the mad melodramatic words, made life seem more vivid to her.  She was familiar with the atmosphere.  She breathed more freely, and for the first time for many months she really admired her son.  She would have liked to have continued the scene on the same emotional scale, but he cut her short.  Trunks had to be carried down and mufflers looked for.  The lodging-house drudge bustled in and out. There was the bargaining with the cabman.  The moment was lost in vulgar details.  It was with a renewed feeling of disappointment that she waved the tattered lace handkerchief from the window, as her son drove away.  She was conscious that a great opportunity had been wasted.  She consoled herself by telling Sibyl how desolate she felt her life would be, now that she had only one child to look after.  She remembered the phrase.  It had pleased her.  Of the threat she said nothing.  It was vividly and dramatically expressed.  She felt that they would all laugh at it some day. "I suppose you have heard the news, Basil?" said Lord Henry that evening as Hallward was shown into a little private room at the Bristol where dinner had been laid for three.

"No, Harry," answered the artist, giving his hat and coat to the bowing waiter.  "What is it?  Nothing about politics, I hope!  They don't interest me.  There is hardly a single person in the House of Commons worth painting, though many of them would be the better for a little whitewashing."

"Dorian Gray is engaged to be married," said Lord Henry, watching him as he spoke.

Hallward started and then frowned.  "Dorian engaged to be married!" he cried.  "Impossible!"

"It is perfectly true."

"To whom?"

"To some little actress or other."

"I can't believe it.  Dorian is far too sensible."

"Dorian is far too wise not to do foolish things now and then, my dear Basil."

"Marriage is hardly a thing that one can do now and then, Harry."

"Except in America," rejoined Lord Henry languidly.  "But I didn't say he was married.  I said he was engaged to be married.  There is a great difference.  I have a distinct remembrance of being married, but I have no recollection at all of being engaged.  I am inclined to think that I never was engaged."

"But think of Dorian's birth, and position, and wealth.  It would be absurd for him to marry so much beneath him."

"If you want to make him marry this girl, tell him that, Basil.  He is sure to do it, then.  Whenever a man does a thoroughly stupid thing, it is always from the noblest motives."

"I hope the girl is good, Harry.  I don't want to see Dorian tied to some vile creature, who might degrade his nature and ruin his intellect."

"Oh, she is better than good--she is beautiful," murmured Lord Henry, sipping a glass of vermouth and orange-bitters. "Dorian says she is beautiful, and he is not often wrong about things of that kind.  Your portrait of him has quickened his appreciation of the personal appearance of other people.  It has had that excellent effect, amongst others.  We are to see her to-night, if that boy doesn't forget his appointment."

"Are you serious?"

"Quite serious, Basil.  I should be miserable if I thought I should ever be more serious than I am at the present moment."

"But do you approve of it, Harry?" asked the painter, walking up and down the room and biting his lip.  "You can't approve of it, possibly. It is some silly infatuation."

"I never approve, or disapprove, of anything now.  It is an absurd attitude to take towards life.  We are not sent into the world to air our moral prejudices.  I never take any notice of what common people say, and I never interfere with what charming people do.  If a personality fascinates me, whatever mode of expression that personality selects is absolutely delightful to me.  Dorian Gray falls in love with a beautiful girl who acts Juliet, and proposes to marry her.  Why not? If he wedded Messalina, he would be none the less interesting.  You know I am not a champion of marriage.  The real drawback to marriage is that it makes one unselfish.  And unselfish people are colourless. They lack individuality.  Still, there are certain temperaments that marriage makes more complex.  They retain their egotism, and add to it many other egos.  They are forced to have more than one life.  They become more highly organized, and to be highly organized is, I should fancy, the object of man's existence.  Besides, every experience is of value, and whatever one may say against marriage, it is certainly an experience.  I hope that Dorian Gray will make this girl his wife, passionately adore her for six months, and then suddenly become fascinated by some one else.  He would be a wonderful study."

"You don't mean a single word of all that, Harry; you know you don't. If Dorian Gray's life were spoiled, no one would be sorrier than yourself.  You are much better than you pretend to be."