"Eighteen years," laughed Dorian Gray, with a touch of triumph in his voice.  "Eighteen years!  Set me under the lamp and look at my face!"

James Vane hesitated for a moment, not understanding what was meant. Then he seized Dorian Gray and dragged him from the archway.

Dim and wavering as was the wind-blown light, yet it served to show him the hideous error, as it seemed, into which he had fallen, for the face of the man he had sought to kill had all the bloom of boyhood, all the unstained purity of youth.  He seemed little more than a lad of twenty summers, hardly older, if older indeed at all, than his sister had been when they had parted so many years ago.  It was obvious that this was not the man who had destroyed her life.

He loosened his hold and reeled back.  "My God! my God!" he cried, "and I would have murdered you!"

Dorian Gray drew a long breath.  "You have been on the brink of committing a terrible crime, my man," he said, looking at him sternly. "Let this be a warning to you not to take vengeance into your own hands."

"Forgive me, sir," muttered James Vane.  "I was deceived.  A chance word I heard in that damned den set me on the wrong track."

"You had better go home and put that pistol away, or you may get into trouble," said Dorian, turning on his heel and going slowly down the street.

James Vane stood on the pavement in horror.  He was trembling from head to foot.  After a little while, a black shadow that had been creeping along the dripping wall moved out into the light and came close to him with stealthy footsteps.  He felt a hand laid on his arm and looked round with a start.  It was one of the women who had been drinking at the bar.

"Why didn't you kill him?" she hissed out, putting haggard face quite close to his.  "I knew you were following him when you rushed out from Daly's. You fool!  You should have killed him.  He has lots of money, and he's as bad as bad."

"He is not the man I am looking for," he answered, "and I want no man's money.  I want a man's life.  The man whose life I want must be nearly forty now.  This one is little more than a boy.  Thank God, I have not got his blood upon my hands."

The woman gave a bitter laugh.  "Little more than a boy!" she sneered. "Why, man, it's nigh on eighteen years since Prince Charming made me what I am."

"You lie!" cried James Vane.

She raised her hand up to heaven.  "Before God I am telling the truth," she cried.

"Before God?"

"Strike me dumb if it ain't so.  He is the worst one that comes here. They say he has sold himself to the devil for a pretty face.  It's nigh on eighteen years since I met him.  He hasn't changed much since then. I have, though," she added, with a sickly leer.

"You swear this?"

"I swear it," came in hoarse echo from her flat mouth.  "But don't give me away to him," she whined; "I am afraid of him.  Let me have some money for my night's lodging."

He broke from her with an oath and rushed to the corner of the street, but Dorian Gray had disappeared.  When he looked back, the woman had vanished also. A week later Dorian Gray was sitting in the conservatory at Selby Royal, talking to the pretty Duchess of Monmouth, who with her husband, a jaded-looking man of sixty, was amongst his guests.  It was tea-time, and the mellow light of the huge, lace-covered lamp that stood on the table lit up the delicate china and hammered silver of the service at which the duchess was presiding.  Her white hands were moving daintily among the cups, and her full red lips were smiling at something that Dorian had whispered to her.  Lord Henry was lying back in a silk-draped wicker chair, looking at them.  On a peach-coloured divan sat Lady Narborough, pretending to listen to the duke's description of the last Brazilian beetle that he had added to his collection.  Three young men in elaborate smoking-suits were handing tea-cakes to some of the women.  The house-party consisted of twelve people, and there were more expected to arrive on the next day.

"What are you two talking about?" said Lord Henry, strolling over to the table and putting his cup down.  "I hope Dorian has told you about my plan for rechristening everything, Gladys.  It is a delightful idea."

"But I don't want to be rechristened, Harry," rejoined the duchess, looking up at him with her wonderful eyes.  "I am quite satisfied with my own name, and I am sure Mr. Gray should be satisfied with his."

"My dear Gladys, I would not alter either name for the world.  They are both perfect.  I was thinking chiefly of flowers.  Yesterday I cut an orchid, for my button-hole. It was a marvellous spotted thing, as effective as the seven deadly sins.  In a thoughtless moment I asked one of the gardeners what it was called.  He told me it was a fine specimen of Robinsoniana, or something dreadful of that kind.  It is a sad truth, but we have lost the faculty of giving lovely names to things.  Names are everything.  I never quarrel with actions.  My one quarrel is with words.  That is the reason I hate vulgar realism in literature.  The man who could call a spade a spade should be compelled to use one.  It is the only thing he is fit for."

"Then what should we call you, Harry?" she asked.

"His name is Prince Paradox," said Dorian.

"I recognize him in a flash," exclaimed the duchess.

"I won't hear of it," laughed Lord Henry, sinking into a chair.  "From a label there is no escape!  I refuse the title."

"Royalties may not abdicate," fell as a warning from pretty lips.

"You wish me to defend my throne, then?"

"Yes."

"I give the truths of to-morrow."

"I prefer the mistakes of to-day," she answered.

"You disarm me, Gladys," he cried, catching the wilfulness of her mood.

"Of your shield, Harry, not of your spear."

"I never tilt against beauty," he said, with a wave of his hand.

"That is your error, Harry, believe me.  You value beauty far too much."

"How can you say that?  I admit that I think that it is better to be beautiful than to be good.  But on the other hand, no one is more ready than I am to acknowledge that it is better to be good than to be ugly."

"Ugliness is one of the seven deadly sins, then?" cried the duchess. "What becomes of your simile about the orchid?"

"Ugliness is one of the seven deadly virtues, Gladys.  You, as a good Tory, must not underrate them.  Beer, the Bible, and the seven deadly virtues have made our England what she is."