"It is only the sacred things that are worth touching, Dorian," said Lord Henry, with a strange touch of pathos in his voice.  "But why should you be annoyed?  I suppose she will belong to you some day. When one is in love, one always begins by deceiving one's self, and one always ends by deceiving others.  That is what the world calls a romance.  You know her, at any rate, I suppose?"

"Of course I know her.  On the first night I was at the theatre, the horrid old Jew came round to the box after the performance was over and offered to take me behind the scenes and introduce me to her.  I was furious with him, and told him that Juliet had been dead for hundreds of years and that her body was lying in a marble tomb in Verona.  I think, from his blank look of amazement, that he was under the impression that I had taken too much champagne, or something."

"I am not surprised."

"Then he asked me if I wrote for any of the newspapers.  I told him I never even read them.  He seemed terribly disappointed at that, and confided to me that all the dramatic critics were in a conspiracy against him, and that they were every one of them to be bought."

"I should not wonder if he was quite right there.  But, on the other hand, judging from their appearance, most of them cannot be at all expensive."

"Well, he seemed to think they were beyond his means," laughed Dorian. "By this time, however, the lights were being put out in the theatre, and I had to go.  He wanted me to try some cigars that he strongly recommended.  I declined.  The next night, of course, I arrived at the place again.  When he saw me, he made me a low bow and assured me that I was a munificent patron of art.  He was a most offensive brute, though he had an extraordinary passion for Shakespeare.  He told me once, with an air of pride, that his five bankruptcies were entirely due to 'The Bard,' as he insisted on calling him.  He seemed to think it a distinction."

"It was a distinction, my dear Dorian--a great distinction.  Most people become bankrupt through having invested too heavily in the prose of life.  To have ruined one's self over poetry is an honour.  But when did you first speak to Miss Sibyl Vane?"

"The third night.  She had been playing Rosalind.  I could not help going round.  I had thrown her some flowers, and she had looked at me--at least I fancied that she had.  The old Jew was persistent.  He seemed determined to take me behind, so I consented.  It was curious my not wanting to know her, wasn't it?"

"No; I don't think so."

"My dear Harry, why?"

"I will tell you some other time.  Now I want to know about the girl."

"Sibyl?  Oh, she was so shy and so gentle.  There is something of a child about her.  Her eyes opened wide in exquisite wonder when I told her what I thought of her performance, and she seemed quite unconscious of her power.  I think we were both rather nervous.  The old Jew stood grinning at the doorway of the dusty greenroom, making elaborate speeches about us both, while we stood looking at each other like children.  He would insist on calling me 'My Lord,' so I had to assure Sibyl that I was not anything of the kind.  She said quite simply to me, 'You look more like a prince.  I must call you Prince Charming.'"

"Upon my word, Dorian, Miss Sibyl knows how to pay compliments."

"You don't understand her, Harry.  She regarded me merely as a person in a play.  She knows nothing of life.  She lives with her mother, a faded tired woman who played Lady Capulet in a sort of magenta dressing-wrapper on the first night, and looks as if she had seen better days."

"I know that look.  It depresses me," murmured Lord Henry, examining his rings.

"The Jew wanted to tell me her history, but I said it did not interest me."

"You were quite right.  There is always something infinitely mean about other people's tragedies."

"Sibyl is the only thing I care about.  What is it to me where she came from?  From her little head to her little feet, she is absolutely and entirely divine.  Every night of my life I go to see her act, and every night she is more marvellous."

"That is the reason, I suppose, that you never dine with me now.  I thought you must have some curious romance on hand.  You have; but it is not quite what I expected."

"My dear Harry, we either lunch or sup together every day, and I have been to the opera with you several times," said Dorian, opening his blue eyes in wonder.

"You always come dreadfully late."

"Well, I can't help going to see Sibyl play," he cried, "even if it is only for a single act.  I get hungry for her presence; and when I think of the wonderful soul that is hidden away in that little ivory body, I am filled with awe."

"You can dine with me to-night, Dorian, can't you?"

He shook his head.  "To-night she is Imogen," he answered, "and to-morrow night she will be Juliet."

"When is she Sibyl Vane?"

"Never."

"I congratulate you."

"How horrid you are!  She is all the great heroines of the world in one.  She is more than an individual.  You laugh, but I tell you she has genius.  I love her, and I must make her love me.  You, who know all the secrets of life, tell me how to charm Sibyl Vane to love me!  I want to make Romeo jealous.  I want the dead lovers of the world to hear our laughter and grow sad.  I want a breath of our passion to stir their dust into consciousness, to wake their ashes into pain.  My God, Harry, how I worship her!"  He was walking up and down the room as he spoke.  Hectic spots of red burned on his cheeks.  He was terribly excited.

Lord Henry watched him with a subtle sense of pleasure.  How different he was now from the shy frightened boy he had met in Basil Hallward's studio!  His nature had developed like a flower, had borne blossoms of scarlet flame.  Out of its secret hiding-place had crept his soul, and desire had come to meet it on the way.

"And what do you propose to do?" said Lord Henry at last.