The elder woman grew pale beneath the coarse powder that daubed her cheeks, and her dry lips twitched with a spasm of pain.  Sybil rushed to her, flung her arms round her neck, and kissed her.  "Forgive me, Mother.  I know it pains you to talk about our father.  But it only pains you because you loved him so much.  Don't look so sad.  I am as happy to-day as you were twenty years ago.  Ah! let me be happy for ever!"

"My child, you are far too young to think of falling in love.  Besides, what do you know of this young man?  You don't even know his name.  The whole thing is most inconvenient, and really, when James is going away to Australia, and I have so much to think of, I must say that you should have shown more consideration.  However, as I said before, if he is rich ..."

"Ah!  Mother, Mother, let me be happy!"

Mrs. Vane glanced at her, and with one of those false theatrical gestures that so often become a mode of second nature to a stage-player, clasped her in her arms.  At this moment, the door opened and a young lad with rough brown hair came into the room.  He was thick-set of figure, and his hands and feet were large and somewhat clumsy in movement.  He was not so finely bred as his sister.  One would hardly have guessed the close relationship that existed between them.  Mrs. Vane fixed her eyes on him and intensified her smile.  She mentally elevated her son to the dignity of an audience.  She felt sure that the tableau was interesting.

"You might keep some of your kisses for me, Sibyl, I think," said the lad with a good-natured grumble.

"Ah! but you don't like being kissed, Jim," she cried.  "You are a dreadful old bear."  And she ran across the room and hugged him.

James Vane looked into his sister's face with tenderness.  "I want you to come out with me for a walk, Sibyl.  I don't suppose I shall ever see this horrid London again.  I am sure I don't want to."

"My son, don't say such dreadful things," murmured Mrs. Vane, taking up a tawdry theatrical dress, with a sigh, and beginning to patch it.  She felt a little disappointed that he had not joined the group.  It would have increased the theatrical picturesqueness of the situation.

"Why not, Mother?  I mean it."

"You pain me, my son.  I trust you will return from Australia in a position of affluence.  I believe there is no society of any kind in the Colonies--nothing that I would call society--so when you have made your fortune, you must come back and assert yourself in London."

"Society!" muttered the lad.  "I don't want to know anything about that.  I should like to make some money to take you and Sibyl off the stage.  I hate it."

"Oh, Jim!" said Sibyl, laughing, "how unkind of you!  But are you really going for a walk with me?  That will be nice!  I was afraid you were going to say good-bye to some of your friends--to Tom Hardy, who gave you that hideous pipe, or Ned Langton, who makes fun of you for smoking it.  It is very sweet of you to let me have your last afternoon.  Where shall we go?  Let us go to the park."

"I am too shabby," he answered, frowning.  "Only swell people go to the park."

"Nonsense, Jim," she whispered, stroking the sleeve of his coat.

He hesitated for a moment.  "Very well," he said at last, "but don't be too long dressing."  She danced out of the door.  One could hear her singing as she ran upstairs.  Her little feet pattered overhead.

He walked up and down the room two or three times.  Then he turned to the still figure in the chair.  "Mother, are my things ready?" he asked.

"Quite ready, James," she answered, keeping her eyes on her work.  For some months past she had felt ill at ease when she was alone with this rough stern son of hers.  Her shallow secret nature was troubled when their eyes met.  She used to wonder if he suspected anything.  The silence, for he made no other observation, became intolerable to her. She began to complain.  Women defend themselves by attacking, just as they attack by sudden and strange surrenders.  "I hope you will be contented, James, with your sea-faring life," she said.  "You must remember that it is your own choice.  You might have entered a solicitor's office.  Solicitors are a very respectable class, and in the country often dine with the best families."

"I hate offices, and I hate clerks," he replied.  "But you are quite right.  I have chosen my own life.  All I say is, watch over Sibyl. Don't let her come to any harm.  Mother, you must watch over her."

"James, you really talk very strangely.  Of course I watch over Sibyl."

"I hear a gentleman comes every night to the theatre and goes behind to talk to her.  Is that right?  What about that?"

"You are speaking about things you don't understand, James.  In the profession we are accustomed to receive a great deal of most gratifying attention.  I myself used to receive many bouquets at one time.  That was when acting was really understood.  As for Sibyl, I do not know at present whether her attachment is serious or not.  But there is no doubt that the young man in question is a perfect gentleman.  He is always most polite to me.  Besides, he has the appearance of being rich, and the flowers he sends are lovely."

"You don't know his name, though," said the lad harshly.

"No," answered his mother with a placid expression in her face.  "He has not yet revealed his real name.  I think it is quite romantic of him.  He is probably a member of the aristocracy."

James Vane bit his lip.  "Watch over Sibyl, Mother," he cried, "watch over her."

"My son, you distress me very much.  Sibyl is always under my special care.  Of course, if this gentleman is wealthy, there is no reason why she should not contract an alliance with him.  I trust he is one of the aristocracy.  He has all the appearance of it, I must say.  It might be a most brilliant marriage for Sibyl.  They would make a charming couple.  His good looks are really quite remarkable; everybody notices them."

The lad muttered something to himself and drummed on the window-pane with his coarse fingers.  He had just turned round to say something when the door opened and Sibyl ran in.

"How serious you both are!" she cried.  "What is the matter?"

"Nothing," he answered.  "I suppose one must be serious sometimes. Good-bye, Mother; I will have my dinner at five o'clock. Everything is packed, except my shirts, so you need not trouble."