Thou knowest the mask of night is on my face,     Else would a maiden blush bepaint my cheek     For that which thou hast heard me speak to-night--

was declaimed with the painful precision of a schoolgirl who has been taught to recite by some second-rate professor of elocution. When she leaned over the balcony and came to those wonderful lines--

Although I joy in thee,     I have no joy of this contract to-night:     It is too rash, too unadvised, too sudden;     Too like the lightning, which doth cease to be     Ere one can say, "It lightens."  Sweet, good-night!     This bud of love by summer's ripening breath     May prove a beauteous flower when next we meet--

she spoke the words as though they conveyed no meaning to her. It was not nervousness. Indeed, so far from being nervous, she was absolutely self-contained. It was simply bad art. She was a complete failure.

Even the common uneducated audience of the pit and gallery lost their interest in the play. They got restless, and began to talk loudly and to whistle. The Jew manager, who was standing at the back of the dress-circle, stamped and swore with rage. The only person unmoved was the girl herself.

When the second act was over, there came a storm of hisses, and Lord Henry got up from his chair and put on his coat.  "She is quite beautiful, Dorian," he said, "but she can't act.  Let us go."

"I am going to see the play through," answered the lad, in a hard bitter voice.  "I am awfully sorry that I have made you waste an evening, Harry.  I apologize to you both."

"My dear Dorian, I should think Miss Vane was ill," interrupted Hallward.  "We will come some other night."

"I wish she were ill," he rejoined.  "But she seems to me to be simply callous and cold.  She has entirely altered.  Last night she was a great artist.  This evening she is merely a commonplace mediocre actress."

"Don't talk like that about any one you love, Dorian.  Love is a more wonderful thing than art."

"They are both simply forms of imitation," remarked Lord Henry.  "But do let us go.  Dorian, you must not stay here any longer.  It is not good for one's morals to see bad acting.  Besides, I don't suppose you will want your wife to act, so what does it matter if she plays Juliet like a wooden doll?  She is very lovely, and if she knows as little about life as she does about acting, she will be a delightful experience.  There are only two kinds of people who are really fascinating--people who know absolutely everything, and people who know absolutely nothing.  Good heavens, my dear boy, don't look so tragic! The secret of remaining young is never to have an emotion that is unbecoming.  Come to the club with Basil and myself.  We will smoke cigarettes and drink to the beauty of Sibyl Vane.  She is beautiful. What more can you want?"

"Go away, Harry," cried the lad.  "I want to be alone.  Basil, you must go.  Ah! can't you see that my heart is breaking?"  The hot tears came to his eyes.  His lips trembled, and rushing to the back of the box, he leaned up against the wall, hiding his face in his hands.

"Let us go, Basil," said Lord Henry with a strange tenderness in his voice, and the two young men passed out together.

A few moments afterwards the footlights flared up and the curtain rose on the third act.  Dorian Gray went back to his seat.  He looked pale, and proud, and indifferent.  The play dragged on, and seemed interminable.  Half of the audience went out, tramping in heavy boots and laughing.  The whole thing was a fiasco.  The last act was played to almost empty benches.  The curtain went down on a titter and some groans.

As soon as it was over, Dorian Gray rushed behind the scenes into the greenroom.  The girl was standing there alone, with a look of triumph on her face.  Her eyes were lit with an exquisite fire.  There was a radiance about her.  Her parted lips were smiling over some secret of their own.

When he entered, she looked at him, and an expression of infinite joy came over her.  "How badly I acted to-night, Dorian!" she cried.

"Horribly!" he answered, gazing at her in amazement.  "Horribly!  It was dreadful.  Are you ill?  You have no idea what it was.  You have no idea what I suffered."

The girl smiled.  "Dorian," she answered, lingering over his name with long-drawn music in her voice, as though it were sweeter than honey to the red petals of her mouth.  "Dorian, you should have understood.  But you understand now, don't you?"

"Understand what?" he asked, angrily.

"Why I was so bad to-night. Why I shall always be bad.  Why I shall never act well again."

He shrugged his shoulders.  "You are ill, I suppose.  When you are ill you shouldn't act.  You make yourself ridiculous.  My friends were bored.  I was bored."

She seemed not to listen to him.  She was transfigured with joy.  An ecstasy of happiness dominated her.