Dorian winced and looked round at the grotesque things that lay in such fantastic postures on the ragged mattresses.  The twisted limbs, the gaping mouths, the staring lustreless eyes, fascinated him.  He knew in what strange heavens they were suffering, and what dull hells were teaching them the secret of some new joy.  They were better off than he was.  He was prisoned in thought.  Memory, like a horrible malady, was eating his soul away.  From time to time he seemed to see the eyes of Basil Hallward looking at him.  Yet he felt he could not stay.  The presence of Adrian Singleton troubled him.  He wanted to be where no one would know who he was.  He wanted to escape from himself.

"I am going on to the other place," he said after a pause.

"On the wharf?"

"Yes."

"That mad-cat is sure to be there.  They won't have her in this place now."

Dorian shrugged his shoulders.  "I am sick of women who love one. Women who hate one are much more interesting.  Besides, the stuff is better."

"Much the same."

"I like it better.  Come and have something to drink.  I must have something."

"I don't want anything," murmured the young man.

"Never mind."

Adrian Singleton rose up wearily and followed Dorian to the bar.  A half-caste, in a ragged turban and a shabby ulster, grinned a hideous greeting as he thrust a bottle of brandy and two tumblers in front of them.  The women sidled up and began to chatter.  Dorian turned his back on them and said something in a low voice to Adrian Singleton.

A crooked smile, like a Malay crease, writhed across the face of one of the women.  "We are very proud to-night," she sneered.

"For God's sake don't talk to me," cried Dorian, stamping his foot on the ground.  "What do you want?  Money?  Here it is.  Don't ever talk to me again."

Two red sparks flashed for a moment in the woman's sodden eyes, then flickered out and left them dull and glazed.  She tossed her head and raked the coins off the counter with greedy fingers.  Her companion watched her enviously.

"It's no use," sighed Adrian Singleton.  "I don't care to go back. What does it matter?  I am quite happy here."

"You will write to me if you want anything, won't you?" said Dorian, after a pause.

"Perhaps."

"Good night, then."

"Good night," answered the young man, passing up the steps and wiping his parched mouth with a handkerchief.

Dorian walked to the door with a look of pain in his face.  As he drew the curtain aside, a hideous laugh broke from the painted lips of the woman who had taken his money.  "There goes the devil's bargain!" she hiccoughed, in a hoarse voice.

"Curse you!" he answered, "don't call me that."

She snapped her fingers.  "Prince Charming is what you like to be called, ain't it?" she yelled after him.

The drowsy sailor leaped to his feet as she spoke, and looked wildly round.  The sound of the shutting of the hall door fell on his ear.  He rushed out as if in pursuit.

Dorian Gray hurried along the quay through the drizzling rain.  His meeting with Adrian Singleton had strangely moved him, and he wondered if the ruin of that young life was really to be laid at his door, as Basil Hallward had said to him with such infamy of insult.  He bit his lip, and for a few seconds his eyes grew sad.  Yet, after all, what did it matter to him?  One's days were too brief to take the burden of another's errors on one's shoulders.  Each man lived his own life and paid his own price for living it.  The only pity was one had to pay so often for a single fault.  One had to pay over and over again, indeed. In her dealings with man, destiny never closed her accounts.

There are moments, psychologists tell us, when the passion for sin, or for what the world calls sin, so dominates a nature that every fibre of the body, as every cell of the brain, seems to be instinct with fearful impulses.  Men and women at such moments lose the freedom of their will.  They move to their terrible end as automatons move.  Choice is taken from them, and conscience is either killed, or, if it lives at all, lives but to give rebellion its fascination and disobedience its charm.  For all sins, as theologians weary not of reminding us, are sins of disobedience.  When that high spirit, that morning star of evil, fell from heaven, it was as a rebel that he fell.

Callous, concentrated on evil, with stained mind, and soul hungry for rebellion, Dorian Gray hastened on, quickening his step as he went, but as he darted aside into a dim archway, that had served him often as a short cut to the ill-famed place where he was going, he felt himself suddenly seized from behind, and before he had time to defend himself, he was thrust back against the wall, with a brutal hand round his throat.

He struggled madly for life, and by a terrible effort wrenched the tightening fingers away.  In a second he heard the click of a revolver, and saw the gleam of a polished barrel, pointing straight at his head, and the dusky form of a short, thick-set man facing him.

"What do you want?" he gasped.

"Keep quiet," said the man.  "If you stir, I shoot you."

"You are mad.  What have I done to you?"

"You wrecked the life of Sibyl Vane," was the answer, "and Sibyl Vane was my sister.  She killed herself.  I know it.  Her death is at your door.  I swore I would kill you in return.  For years I have sought you.  I had no clue, no trace.  The two people who could have described you were dead.  I knew nothing of you but the pet name she used to call you.  I heard it to-night by chance.  Make your peace with God, for to-night you are going to die."

Dorian Gray grew sick with fear.  "I never knew her," he stammered.  "I never heard of her.  You are mad."

"You had better confess your sin, for as sure as I am James Vane, you are going to die."  There was a horrible moment.  Dorian did not know what to say or do.  "Down on your knees!" growled the man.  "I give you one minute to make your peace--no more.  I go on board to-night for India, and I must do my job first.  One minute.  That's all."

Dorian's arms fell to his side.  Paralysed with terror, he did not know what to do.  Suddenly a wild hope flashed across his brain.  "Stop," he cried.  "How long ago is it since your sister died?  Quick, tell me!"

"Eighteen years," said the man.  "Why do you ask me?  What do years matter?"