"I want you to beware of him."

"To see him is to worship him; to know him is to trust him."

"Sibyl, you are mad about him."

She laughed and took his arm.  "You dear old Jim, you talk as if you were a hundred.  Some day you will be in love yourself.  Then you will know what it is.  Don't look so sulky.  Surely you should be glad to think that, though you are going away, you leave me happier than I have ever been before.  Life has been hard for us both, terribly hard and difficult.  But it will be different now.  You are going to a new world, and I have found one.  Here are two chairs; let us sit down and see the smart people go by."

They took their seats amidst a crowd of watchers.  The tulip-beds across the road flamed like throbbing rings of fire.  A white dust--tremulous cloud of orris-root it seemed--hung in the panting air. The brightly coloured parasols danced and dipped like monstrous butterflies.

She made her brother talk of himself, his hopes, his prospects.  He spoke slowly and with effort.  They passed words to each other as players at a game pass counters.  Sibyl felt oppressed.  She could not communicate her joy.  A faint smile curving that sullen mouth was all the echo she could win.  After some time she became silent.  Suddenly she caught a glimpse of golden hair and laughing lips, and in an open carriage with two ladies Dorian Gray drove past.

She started to her feet.  "There he is!" she cried.

"Who?" said Jim Vane.

"Prince Charming," she answered, looking after the victoria.

He jumped up and seized her roughly by the arm.  "Show him to me. Which is he?  Point him out.  I must see him!" he exclaimed; but at that moment the Duke of Berwick's four-in-hand came between, and when it had left the space clear, the carriage had swept out of the park.

"He is gone," murmured Sibyl sadly.  "I wish you had seen him."

"I wish I had, for as sure as there is a God in heaven, if he ever does you any wrong, I shall kill him."

She looked at him in horror.  He repeated his words.  They cut the air like a dagger.  The people round began to gape.  A lady standing close to her tittered.

"Come away, Jim; come away," she whispered.  He followed her doggedly as she passed through the crowd.  He felt glad at what he had said.

When they reached the Achilles Statue, she turned round.  There was pity in her eyes that became laughter on her lips.  She shook her head at him.  "You are foolish, Jim, utterly foolish; a bad-tempered boy, that is all.  How can you say such horrible things?  You don't know what you are talking about.  You are simply jealous and unkind.  Ah!  I wish you would fall in love.  Love makes people good, and what you said was wicked."

"I am sixteen," he answered, "and I know what I am about.  Mother is no help to you.  She doesn't understand how to look after you.  I wish now that I was not going to Australia at all.  I have a great mind to chuck the whole thing up.  I would, if my articles hadn't been signed."

"Oh, don't be so serious, Jim.  You are like one of the heroes of those silly melodramas Mother used to be so fond of acting in.  I am not going to quarrel with you.  I have seen him, and oh! to see him is perfect happiness.  We won't quarrel.  I know you would never harm any one I love, would you?"

"Not as long as you love him, I suppose," was the sullen answer.

"I shall love him for ever!" she cried.

"And he?"

"For ever, too!"

"He had better."

She shrank from him.  Then she laughed and put her hand on his arm.  He was merely a boy.

At the Marble Arch they hailed an omnibus, which left them close to their shabby home in the Euston Road.  It was after five o'clock, and Sibyl had to lie down for a couple of hours before acting.  Jim insisted that she should do so.  He said that he would sooner part with her when their mother was not present.  She would be sure to make a scene, and he detested scenes of every kind.

In Sybil's own room they parted.  There was jealousy in the lad's heart, and a fierce murderous hatred of the stranger who, as it seemed to him, had come between them.  Yet, when her arms were flung round his neck, and her fingers strayed through his hair, he softened and kissed her with real affection.  There were tears in his eyes as he went downstairs.

His mother was waiting for him below.  She grumbled at his unpunctuality, as he entered.  He made no answer, but sat down to his meagre meal.  The flies buzzed round the table and crawled over the stained cloth.  Through the rumble of omnibuses, and the clatter of street-cabs, he could hear the droning voice devouring each minute that was left to him.

After some time, he thrust away his plate and put his head in his hands.  He felt that he had a right to know.  It should have been told to him before, if it was as he suspected.  Leaden with fear, his mother watched him.  Words dropped mechanically from her lips.  A tattered lace handkerchief twitched in her fingers.  When the clock struck six, he got up and went to the door.  Then he turned back and looked at her. Their eyes met.  In hers he saw a wild appeal for mercy.  It enraged him.

"Mother, I have something to ask you," he said.  Her eyes wandered vaguely about the room.  She made no answer.  "Tell me the truth.  I have a right to know.  Were you married to my father?"

She heaved a deep sigh.  It was a sigh of relief.  The terrible moment, the moment that night and day, for weeks and months, she had dreaded, had come at last, and yet she felt no terror.  Indeed, in some measure it was a disappointment to her.  The vulgar directness of the question called for a direct answer.  The situation had not been gradually led up to.  It was crude.  It reminded her of a bad rehearsal.

"No," she answered, wondering at the harsh simplicity of life.

"My father was a scoundrel then!" cried the lad, clenching his fists.

She shook her head.  "I knew he was not free.  We loved each other very much.  If he had lived, he would have made provision for us.  Don't speak against him, my son.  He was your father, and a gentleman. Indeed, he was highly connected."