After a few moments--that were to him, in his perturbed state, like endless hours of pain--he felt a hand laid on his shoulder.  He started and looked round.

"Dorian," said Lord Henry, "I had better tell them that the shooting is stopped for to-day. It would not look well to go on."

"I wish it were stopped for ever, Harry," he answered bitterly.  "The whole thing is hideous and cruel.  Is the man ...?"

He could not finish the sentence.

"I am afraid so," rejoined Lord Henry.  "He got the whole charge of shot in his chest.  He must have died almost instantaneously.  Come; let us go home."

They walked side by side in the direction of the avenue for nearly fifty yards without speaking.  Then Dorian looked at Lord Henry and said, with a heavy sigh, "It is a bad omen, Harry, a very bad omen."

"What is?" asked Lord Henry.  "Oh! this accident, I suppose.  My dear fellow, it can't be helped.  It was the man's own fault.  Why did he get in front of the guns?  Besides, it is nothing to us.  It is rather awkward for Geoffrey, of course.  It does not do to pepper beaters.  It makes people think that one is a wild shot.  And Geoffrey is not; he shoots very straight.  But there is no use talking about the matter."

Dorian shook his head.  "It is a bad omen, Harry.  I feel as if something horrible were going to happen to some of us.  To myself, perhaps," he added, passing his hand over his eyes, with a gesture of pain.

The elder man laughed.  "The only horrible thing in the world is ennui, Dorian.  That is the one sin for which there is no forgiveness.  But we are not likely to suffer from it unless these fellows keep chattering about this thing at dinner.  I must tell them that the subject is to be tabooed.  As for omens, there is no such thing as an omen.  Destiny does not send us heralds.  She is too wise or too cruel for that. Besides, what on earth could happen to you, Dorian?  You have everything in the world that a man can want.  There is no one who would not be delighted to change places with you."

"There is no one with whom I would not change places, Harry.  Don't laugh like that.  I am telling you the truth.  The wretched peasant who has just died is better off than I am.  I have no terror of death.  It is the coming of death that terrifies me.  Its monstrous wings seem to wheel in the leaden air around me.  Good heavens! don't you see a man moving behind the trees there, watching me, waiting for me?"

Lord Henry looked in the direction in which the trembling gloved hand was pointing.  "Yes," he said, smiling, "I see the gardener waiting for you.  I suppose he wants to ask you what flowers you wish to have on the table to-night. How absurdly nervous you are, my dear fellow!  You must come and see my doctor, when we get back to town."

Dorian heaved a sigh of relief as he saw the gardener approaching.  The man touched his hat, glanced for a moment at Lord Henry in a hesitating manner, and then produced a letter, which he handed to his master. "Her Grace told me to wait for an answer," he murmured.

Dorian put the letter into his pocket.  "Tell her Grace that I am coming in," he said, coldly.  The man turned round and went rapidly in the direction of the house.

"How fond women are of doing dangerous things!" laughed Lord Henry. "It is one of the qualities in them that I admire most.  A woman will flirt with anybody in the world as long as other people are looking on."

"How fond you are of saying dangerous things, Harry!  In the present instance, you are quite astray.  I like the duchess very much, but I don't love her."

"And the duchess loves you very much, but she likes you less, so you are excellently matched."

"You are talking scandal, Harry, and there is never any basis for scandal."

"The basis of every scandal is an immoral certainty," said Lord Henry, lighting a cigarette.

"You would sacrifice anybody, Harry, for the sake of an epigram."

"The world goes to the altar of its own accord," was the answer.

"I wish I could love," cried Dorian Gray with a deep note of pathos in his voice.  "But I seem to have lost the passion and forgotten the desire.  I am too much concentrated on myself.  My own personality has become a burden to me.  I want to escape, to go away, to forget.  It was silly of me to come down here at all.  I think I shall send a wire to Harvey to have the yacht got ready.  On a yacht one is safe."

"Safe from what, Dorian?  You are in some trouble.  Why not tell me what it is?  You know I would help you."

"I can't tell you, Harry," he answered sadly.  "And I dare say it is only a fancy of mine.  This unfortunate accident has upset me.  I have a horrible presentiment that something of the kind may happen to me."

"What nonsense!"

"I hope it is, but I can't help feeling it.  Ah! here is the duchess, looking like Artemis in a tailor-made gown.  You see we have come back, Duchess."

"I have heard all about it, Mr. Gray," she answered.  "Poor Geoffrey is terribly upset.  And it seems that you asked him not to shoot the hare. How curious!"

"Yes, it was very curious.  I don't know what made me say it.  Some whim, I suppose.  It looked the loveliest of little live things.  But I am sorry they told you about the man.  It is a hideous subject."

"It is an annoying subject," broke in Lord Henry.  "It has no psychological value at all.  Now if Geoffrey had done the thing on purpose, how interesting he would be!  I should like to know some one who had committed a real murder."

"How horrid of you, Harry!" cried the duchess.  "Isn't it, Mr. Gray? Harry, Mr. Gray is ill again.  He is going to faint."

Dorian drew himself up with an effort and smiled.  "It is nothing, Duchess," he murmured; "my nerves are dreadfully out of order.  That is all.  I am afraid I walked too far this morning.  I didn't hear what Harry said.  Was it very bad?  You must tell me some other time.  I think I must go and lie down.  You will excuse me, won't you?"

They had reached the great flight of steps that led from the conservatory on to the terrace.  As the glass door closed behind Dorian, Lord Henry turned and looked at the duchess with his slumberous eyes.  "Are you very much in love with him?" he asked.