"An eternity, she tells me.  I believe, according to the peerage, it is ten years, but ten years with Monmouth must have been like eternity, with time thrown in.  Who else is coming?"

"Oh, the Willoughbys, Lord Rugby and his wife, our hostess, Geoffrey Clouston, the usual set.  I have asked Lord Grotrian."

"I like him," said Lord Henry.  "A great many people don't, but I find him charming.  He atones for being occasionally somewhat overdressed by being always absolutely over-educated. He is a very modern type."

"I don't know if he will be able to come, Harry.  He may have to go to Monte Carlo with his father."

"Ah! what a nuisance people's people are!  Try and make him come.  By the way, Dorian, you ran off very early last night.  You left before eleven.  What did you do afterwards?  Did you go straight home?"

Dorian glanced at him hurriedly and frowned.

"No, Harry," he said at last, "I did not get home till nearly three."

"Did you go to the club?"

"Yes," he answered.  Then he bit his lip.  "No, I don't mean that.  I didn't go to the club.  I walked about.  I forget what I did.... How inquisitive you are, Harry!  You always want to know what one has been doing.  I always want to forget what I have been doing.  I came in at half-past two, if you wish to know the exact time.  I had left my latch-key at home, and my servant had to let me in.  If you want any corroborative evidence on the subject, you can ask him."

Lord Henry shrugged his shoulders.  "My dear fellow, as if I cared! Let us go up to the drawing-room. No sherry, thank you, Mr. Chapman. Something has happened to you, Dorian.  Tell me what it is.  You are not yourself to-night."

"Don't mind me, Harry.  I am irritable, and out of temper.  I shall come round and see you to-morrow, or next day.  Make my excuses to Lady Narborough.  I shan't go upstairs.  I shall go home.  I must go home."

"All right, Dorian.  I dare say I shall see you to-morrow at tea-time. The duchess is coming."

"I will try to be there, Harry," he said, leaving the room.  As he drove back to his own house, he was conscious that the sense of terror he thought he had strangled had come back to him.  Lord Henry's casual questioning had made him lose his nerve for the moment, and he wanted his nerve still.  Things that were dangerous had to be destroyed.  He winced.  He hated the idea of even touching them.

Yet it had to be done.  He realized that, and when he had locked the door of his library, he opened the secret press into which he had thrust Basil Hallward's coat and bag.  A huge fire was blazing.  He piled another log on it.  The smell of the singeing clothes and burning leather was horrible.  It took him three-quarters of an hour to consume everything.  At the end he felt faint and sick, and having lit some Algerian pastilles in a pierced copper brazier, he bathed his hands and forehead with a cool musk-scented vinegar.

Suddenly he started.  His eyes grew strangely bright, and he gnawed nervously at his underlip.  Between two of the windows stood a large Florentine cabinet, made out of ebony and inlaid with ivory and blue lapis.  He watched it as though it were a thing that could fascinate and make afraid, as though it held something that he longed for and yet almost loathed.  His breath quickened.  A mad craving came over him. He lit a cigarette and then threw it away.  His eyelids drooped till the long fringed lashes almost touched his cheek.  But he still watched the cabinet.  At last he got up from the sofa on which he had been lying, went over to it, and having unlocked it, touched some hidden spring.  A triangular drawer passed slowly out.  His fingers moved instinctively towards it, dipped in, and closed on something.  It was a small Chinese box of black and gold-dust lacquer, elaborately wrought, the sides patterned with curved waves, and the silken cords hung with round crystals and tasselled in plaited metal threads.  He opened it. Inside was a green paste, waxy in lustre, the odour curiously heavy and persistent.

He hesitated for some moments, with a strangely immobile smile upon his face.  Then shivering, though the atmosphere of the room was terribly hot, he drew himself up and glanced at the clock.  It was twenty minutes to twelve.  He put the box back, shutting the cabinet doors as he did so, and went into his bedroom.

As midnight was striking bronze blows upon the dusky air, Dorian Gray, dressed commonly, and with a muffler wrapped round his throat, crept quietly out of his house.  In Bond Street he found a hansom with a good horse.  He hailed it and in a low voice gave the driver an address.

The man shook his head.  "It is too far for me," he muttered.

"Here is a sovereign for you," said Dorian.  "You shall have another if you drive fast."

"All right, sir," answered the man, "you will be there in an hour," and after his fare had got in he turned his horse round and drove rapidly towards the river. A cold rain began to fall, and the blurred street-lamps looked ghastly in the dripping mist.  The public-houses were just closing, and dim men and women were clustering in broken groups round their doors.  From some of the bars came the sound of horrible laughter.  In others, drunkards brawled and screamed.

Lying back in the hansom, with his hat pulled over his forehead, Dorian Gray watched with listless eyes the sordid shame of the great city, and now and then he repeated to himself the words that Lord Henry had said to him on the first day they had met, "To cure the soul by means of the senses, and the senses by means of the soul."  Yes, that was the secret.  He had often tried it, and would try it again now.  There were opium dens where one could buy oblivion, dens of horror where the memory of old sins could be destroyed by the madness of sins that were new.

The moon hung low in the sky like a yellow skull.  From time to time a huge misshapen cloud stretched a long arm across and hid it.  The gas-lamps grew fewer, and the streets more narrow and gloomy.  Once the man lost his way and had to drive back half a mile.  A steam rose from the horse as it splashed up the puddles.  The sidewindows of the hansom were clogged with a grey-flannel mist.